update dilation and re-write accompanying text (#27)
pxr687/skimage-tutorials-temp: 8_morphology.Rmd

As you are about to see, basic morphological operations work on shapes within
images by:

* Choosing a footprint of a specific shape. This footprint acts as a ["probe"](https://biapol.github.io/Image-data-science-with-Python-and-Napari-EPFL2022/day2d_image_segmentation/03_Morphological_operations.html), which scans over the image, centering on each pixel. The relationship between the probe and a given region of the image determines whether (and what) changes will be applied to that region.  
    
* Common footprint / function filtering operations applied via this probe are:
  * the `minimum` function, to do an operation called *erosion* or
  * the `maximum` function, to do an operation called *dilation* or
  * some combination of these.

> The primary new thing we see in morphology, compared to our previous filters,is the increased importance of the *shape* defined by the binary *footprint*. Just to note, here we mean *shape* in the sense of square, diamond, triangle etc., not `shape` in the sense of the Numpy [`shape`](https://numpy.org/doc/stable/reference/generated/numpy.ndarray.shape.html) attribute. Regions of the image are altered based upon the shape of the footprint, and so the specific shape of the footprint has a large impact on the result of morphological  operations. In addition, the morphological operations covered on this page introduce the use of `minimum` and `maximum` functions in footprint / function filters.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The primary new thing we see in morphology, compared to our previous filters, is the increased importance of the *shape* defined by the binary *footprint*. Just to note, here we mean *shape* in the sense of square, diamond, triangle etc., not `shape` in the sense of the Numpy [`shape`](https://numpy.org/doc/stable/reference/generated/numpy.ndarray.shape.html) attribute. Morphological operations alter regions of the image based on the shape of the footprint, and so the specific shape of the footprint has a large impact on the result of morphological  operations. In addition, the morphological operations covered on this page introduce the use of `minimum` and `maximum` functions in footprint / function filters.
```

As you are about to see, basic morphological operations work on shapes within
images by:

> * Choosing a footprint of a specific shape. This footprint acts as a ["probe"](https://biapol.github.io/Image-data-science-with-Python-and-Napari-EPFL2022/day2d_image_segmentation/03_Morphological_operations.html), which scans the image for the footprint shape, centering on each pixel. The relationship between the probe and a given region of the image determines whether (and what) changes will be applied to that region.  

Reviewer: But - now I think of it - this only works for erosion - you can't say that dilation "scans the image for the footprint shape" - can you?

Author: Yes, thanks!

Author: Changed in [8c0682a](https://github.com/pxr687/skimage-tutorials-temp/pull/27/commits/8c0682aff1e4fc1ffdf7d2b4ef6c93d0cf2617e3)

As you are about to see, basic morphological operations work on shapes within
images by:

> * Choosing a footprint of a specific shape. This footprint acts as a ["probe"](https://biapol.github.io/Image-data-science-with-Python-and-Napari-EPFL2022/day2d_image_segmentation/03_Morphological_operations.html), which scans the image pixel-by-pixel. The relationship between the probe and a given region of the image determines whether (and what) changes will be applied to that region.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Choosing a footprint of a specific shape. This footprint acts as a ["probe"](https://biapol.github.io/Image-data-science-with-Python-and-Napari-EPFL2022/day2d_image_segmentation/03_Morphological_operations.html), which scans the image for the footprint shape, centering on each pixel. The relationship between the probe and a given region of the image determines whether (and what) changes will be applied to that region.  
```

> * Common changes applied via this probe are:

Reviewer: I like emphasizing the familiar "footprint / filter" motif here.  Can you think of a way of putting that back in?

Author: Done in [cacfe72](https://github.com/pxr687/skimage-tutorials-temp/pull/27/commits/cacfe725fb2f0d9254dd67519bd1419d7386ca2f)

  * the `minimum` function, to do an operation called *erosion* or
  * the `maximum` function, to do an operation called *dilation* or
  * some combination of these.

The primary new thing we see in morphology, compared to our previous filters,
is an increased interest in the *shape* defined by the binary *footprint*.
Regions of the image are altered based upon that shape, and so the specific

> shape of the footprint matters a lot for determining the result of morphological 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
shape of the footprint has a large impact on the result of morphological 
```

What has happened here? We can think of our `diamond` footprint as being a bit
like a weird [crosshair/reticle](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Reticle) of
a gun. In a morphological operation, we "target" the crosshair on a given
array pixel. 

When we apply the footprint to each pixel in the image, call the pixels under

> the footprint — *the pixel neighborhood*. Because we are eroding, the central pixel will be *lowered to thevalue of the lowest pixel in its neighborhood*. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the footprint — *the pixel neighborhood*. Because we are eroding, the central pixel will be *lowered to the value of the lowest pixel in its neighborhood*. 
```

> In our specific case the *pixel neighbourhood* is the pixels in the image which fall

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In our specific case the *pixel neighbourhood* is the set of pixels in the image which fall
```

"neighborhood is the pixels" reads oddly.

> under the "crosshair" shape of the footprint. E.g. the image

Reviewer: ```suggestion
under the "crosshair" shape of the footprint. In other words, the neighbourhood is the set of image
```

plt.imshow(eroded_two_squares);
```

What happened here? Well, only two pixels have 1 as their neighbourhood minimum - 
the pixels at the center of each white square. This illustration below
shows what happened:

![](images/hit_n_miss_with_text_2.png)

All other "neighborhoods" had at least one 0 in them, and so their central pixels were lowered to 0, resulting in 1-to-0 changes if the central pixel had a value of 1. 

> One way to think of this is that the erosion footprint is "searching" for areas of the image which "match" its shape. For a central pixel with a value of 1 to "survive", all the values in its neighbourhood must also be 1. In this instance, therefore the neighbourhood "matches" the footprint - the neighbourhood has 1's everywhere the footprint has 1's. If at least one value in the neighbourhood does not match the shape of the 1's in the footprint (e.g. there is a 0 under the "crosshair") 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
One way to think of this is that the erosion footprint is "searching" for areas of the image which "match" its shape. For a central pixel with a value of 1 to "survive", all the values in its neighbourhood must also be 1. In this instance, therefore the neighbourhood "matches" the footprint - the neighbourhood has 1's everywhere the footprint has 1's. If at least one value in the neighbourhood does not match the shape of the 1's in the footprint (e.g. there is a 0 *anywhere* under the "crosshair"), then the output pixel value gets set to 0.
```

Dilation works in the same way as erosion, or any other footprint / function
filter, in terms of centering a footprint on each pixel, to select the pixel local neighborhood.  It takes the maximum of the local pixel values.

> Dilation is less like a reticle/crosshair than erosion. Wherever the footprint "lands" the central pixel will be raised to the neighbourhood maximum, regardless of whether the values under the footprint "match" those in the footprint.

Reviewer: My problem with this is that you could also say of erosion "wherever the footprint lands, the central pixel will be reduced to the neighborhood minimum".    And I guess you could say dilation was also to do with shape, in that the shape defines where you are looking for the maximum.     But basically, I think the contrast between matching for erosion and not-matching for dilation, is not helpful, at least at the moment.

Author: I messaged privately re: this btw, in case you did not see.

plt.imshow(dilated_square);
```

> Again, here we use blue squares to represent the footprint, with white text showing what value is in the array at that location. Remember, *dilation will raise the central pixel to the neighbourhood maximum*.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Again, here we use blue squares to represent the footprint, with white text showing the value in the array at that location. Remember, *dilation will raise the central pixel to the neighbourhood maximum*.
```

          "Eroded \n(3,3) Square SE");
```

> The difference here between eroding with a (3,3) diamond vs a (3,3) square is subtle, but changing the *morphology* of the probe changes the impact of the filtering operation. The output images are shown below - can you find regions where the different probes have resulted in different white pixels "surviving" each operation?:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The difference here between eroding with a (3,3) diamond vs a (3,3) square is subtle, but changing the *morphology* (shape) of the probe changes the impact of the filtering operation. The output images are shown below - can you find regions where the different probes have resulted in different white pixels "surviving" each operation?:
```

```{python}
show_both(xeno_binary_ero_rad_1_diamond,
          xeno_binary_ero_square,
          "Eroded \n(3,3) Square SE",
          "Eroded \n(3,3) Diamond");
```

> Below we use an indexing operation to "zoom in" on the same region in each image, for easier comparison. We can now easily see that changing the shape of the (3,3) probe (diamond vs square) alters which pixels "survive" the erosion:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Below we use an indexing operation to "zoom in" on the same region in each image, for easier comparison. We can now see that changing the shape of the (3,3) probe (diamond vs square) alters which pixels "survive" the erosion:
```
